---
title: Virtual Machine update & iTunes Connect / TestFlight beta testing support
date: 2015-03-17 08:53 UTC
tags: announcement, status
authors: Viktor Benei|viktorbenei@bitrise.io
---

There are two important updates this time:

* We now have the first version of an iTunes Connect / (new) TestFlight beta deployment Step.
* We'll keep our weekly virtual machine update schedule and roll out the updates on March 21.


# Deploy to iTunes Connect / new TestFlight beta directly from Bitrise!

The first version of the [Step](https://github.com/bitrise-io/steps-deploy-to-itunesconnect-shenzhen){:target="_blank"} is now available, in all of our
supported step collections (both in the Open Step Library collection
and in our Verified Step Collection).

The Step's description contains a detailed setup guide,
it's easy to configure it if you know your way around
the iTunes Connect website and contains hints and step-by-step
instructions if you're not familiar with it.

*The Step uses the popular, open source [Shenzhen](https://github.com/nomad/shenzhen){:target="_blank"} Ruby gem
to handle the app uploading to iTunes Connect.*

As mentioned in the Step's description there's **one
important thing to keep in mind if you have an issue with the deployment**.
If the App is successfully uploaded to iTunes Connect
and can be seen on the *Prerelease* tab but it's marked with
a *yellow warning sign* and you see an issue description
like `To use TestFlight Beta Testing, build X must contain the correct beta entitlement`, it can mean two thing:

1. As mentioned on the iTunes Connect FAQ you need an App Store distribution provisioning profile, one which contains the beta testing flag enabled in it. This practically means that you might have to re-generate your provisioning profile if it was generated before the end of last year (2014).
2. If this still doesn't work then you have to include an *entitlements* file in
your Xcode project which also contains the `beta-reports-active` flag enabled. You can find a base entitlements file content in the Step's description.

The second step might be required in some cases, as this *entitlements*
file is now auto-generated by Xcode (unless you have special
app entitlements already enabled) but for some projects
this `beta-reports-active` was only added automatically to the
entitlements if the App was submitted to the iTunes Connect
beta system *directly from Xcode*, but not if the App was generated
as a normal Archive (as Bitrise does) and then uploaded
with another tool (not even with the official *Application Loader* app).



# Virtual Machine update at March 21 - Xcode 6.3 beta 3 included

This virtual machine update will contain only two tool version upgrade
and a platform related change:

* Xcode 6.3 beta 2 (Build version 6D532l) -> Xcode 6.3 beta 3 (Build version 6D543q)
* git: 2.3.2 -> 2.3.2
* *Platform note*: we'll increase the RAM of the virtual machines from 3GB to 4GB


## Schedule & Status

**Status**: the new virtual machine is fully prepared, ready for deployment.

The Virtual Machine update is scheduled for **Saturday, March 21, 2015**,
we'll update this section with the status of the update.

*We don't expect any downtime during the update, but build queue
times might be longer while we disconnect a set of
builder machines for the update.*
